[glitchy noise]
Vacations to another country can be some of the best times of your life.
getting away...
experiencing a culture nothing like your own
and traversing through some of the most memorable places on earth are truly something to hold with you for a lifetime.
Oftentimes, on said trips...
Warnings are made to stay within the boundaries of where you're supposed to be, whether it be a hotel, a
host family's house, or even a resort.
It's generally pretty strongly urged to, without a guide, stay on the path set forth in front of you
unfortunately, many of us have that growing instinctive curiosity
What if we ventured out on our own? Ignored the warnings and truly explored where we were?
How badass would that be?
Nothing that bad could ever happen to us, right?
Except..
It can, and when it comes to the tragic case surrounding two girls from the Netherlands on their trip to Panama
it did...
Today we're going to explore the evidence and story surrounding the harrowing disappearance of Kris Kremers and Lisanne Froon
Kris Kremers and Lisanne Froon are two girls from the Netherlands
Who made their way to Panama to celebrate Kris graduating from school. They arrived to the country on March 15, 2014
and explored around for two weeks before reaching their destination, the city of Boquete on March 29th
The girls allegedly had plans to volunteer to work with the local school and to improve upon their own Spanish
Kris carried around a diary, and allegedly she noted that the aforementioned school let them know
That they arrived an entire week early, and were pretty rude about it
Anyway, on April 1st, 2014 at around 10 a.m.
The girls embarked with the host families dog on a hike up the la pianista trail, near the continental divide
Everything seemed to go pretty, well and the host family had believed everything
Was fine up until a few hours later when the family's dog returned home without the girls
The host family, was immediately worried and called the police
unfortunately the national system of civil protection or
SINAPROC as they call it in the region took the case very lightly, and didn't take action for four whole days
During this time span
Local residents and tour guides were assisting the family and searching for the missing girls themselves since police lacked
Any sort of desire for immediate action
Once the search finally, did start officials were met with a huge roadblock
The girls didn't exactly, tell anybody, where they were going when they left so search teams had little to go off of
The search then commenced to no avail
Hours turned into, days
Days turned into weeks, and weeks turned into months until june 9th of that same year when an Agoby
Woman found a backpack, and turned it into police
She had claimed that she found it on the riverbank of the serpent river
Strangely it was dry and packed well.
Inside were two bras two pairs of sunglasses a small water bottle
Lisanne's camera, two smart phones, a passport and 83 dollars
The police decided to investigate the call records and photos that were on the phones and camera
And what they found allowed them to start piecing together the puzzle
Allegedly, the girls have taken over 100 pictures on their venture the strange part is only about ten of them were taken during the
day time.
Remaining 90 plus were all at the late late
Hours between 1:00 to 4:00 in the morning and 87 of those remaining 90 show nothing but blackness a
Lot of mystery surrounds the final image of the girls took, which, was purportedly taken 8, days after the start of the hike
It shows, some sort of rock formation or a trail however the orientation of the camera is debatable
Some people claim it it's a shot looking forward down a trail, while others have stated that it could be pointing up a cliff
One huge mystery that i can't quite wrap, my head around
surrounds the timing of this photo
Let's think about it, the girls started their journey at around 10 a.m. on April 1st.
This photo, was taken on april 8th
Presumably, by this point in time the girls to our knowledge had minimal amounts of water on them due to the contents that were found
in the backpack
How, would either of them be alive at this point to take, this photo the human
Body can go anywhere from seven and ten, days without water, with ten days being on the less common end of the spectrum
These girls have been out in the jungle all of this time presumably exhausting themselves, while trying to find their, way, back home
How did they make it this long?
It's just a question that hasn't ever escaped
My mind since the first time i took a look at this photo and learned of the timestamp
anyway i digress
The reason for the photo is largely unknown, but, say one of the girls
Did take it along with all 87 of the other pitch-black photos.
A theory, is that they could have been lighting up the path in front of them in order to save their phone batteries so they could
Use that to check for a signal
That actually ties into, my next segment of the story
The Phones
Police were able to extract the call records from their devices and they found that the girls made their initial attempt to call one one?
Two the dutch emergency, line and 9-1-1 the panamanian emergency, line just hours after starting their hike
This, tells us that on day one
Something went wrong here
Throughout the course of time from april 1st. Through april 6th the girls
Would make intermittent attempts at early morning or late night hours
To, power on their phones to check for a signal before powering them off again shortly after
One strange thing to note here, is that after april
6th multiple incorrect pen attempts were entered into the iphone and police had determined that a
Successful pin was never entered, again, from this point forward that
Fact right there
Is strange to me and i have two theories to discuss here backing up to the photos i wanted to make one quick point
Police had found that the filenames of the images were numbered starting at 499. For instance their first image was 499
The second image, was 500 so on and so forth
One strange part about this, is that they could never find image 509
We have over 100 images that were left on the camera and the only image that is missing is?
Conveniently the one between the final daytime image and the first nighttime image
Why, through all of this, would
The girls be concerned with deleting any image from their phone especially while in a situation, like this
That would be the absolute last, thing i'd ever be thinking of doing
Investigators were never able to recover the photo, and they had determined that it wasn't deleted through the camera itself
Jumping, back to the pin numbers again, what if there was a third party involved? There very
Well could have been someone else in these woods following the girls and trying to potentially murder them
Say, this third party, was successful they could be potentially trying to wipe information, which
strangely could be related to the missing photo 509
Now, before you grill me on this theory hang tight because i have something to back this up shortly
Anyway, the other theory that i have surrounding this is the idea that chris was either unconscious or dead due to injury or other natural
Causes, and left her iphone with lizanne
Lizanne, likely didn't know the password to it and made multiple guess attempts at getting into it potentially to try to make more phone calls
Or use the flashlight
Since she realized that it was hopeless she power to back off and never turned it on again
Back to the investigation
Locals had found lizanne shorts upstream from, where the backpack
Was found and this is where the inconsistencies and glaring holes of police mismanagement come into play
The "official story"
Is that the shorts were found neatly folded on a rock. However
According to the guide that found them they were in an eddy on a river near monkey bridge
Accompanying these shorts the locals claimed that they found chris's boot
With her footstool in it and a fragment of lizenz pelvis which appeared to be sun-bleached
They, also found multiple bone fragments that belong to the two girls however there were three fragments out of all of these that were undetermined
With the photos in hand the shorts found and the bones
Identified the police had determined that kris had fallen off a nearby monkey bridge and either went unconscious or dead and lizanne
Had left to go to find help
Since her backpack containing nothing of true use, she ditched it nearby
And with that her shorts since they could have been chafing her. On the way
Back she used the camera to take photos of the blackness to light up the trail in front of her and during that trek back
Exhausted or injured herself and passed away.
Solved. Right?
Well this story is highly contested due to extreme police mismanagement
Allegedly, other fingerprints were found on the backpack however the findings proved to be useless since they weren't tracking prints through the investigation
Also as we said before, SINAPROC took four entire days to begin the search mission
and as we know the first 24 hours are the most vital part of any
search-and-rescue
There's, also one other thing
Remember that theory that i had earlier about a third party being involved
Let's gather our evidence that supports that really fast
First, we have a missing image 509, which conveniently bridges the gap between the last, day time, and first night time image
we have a
Backpack, that was found on a riverbank that, was completely dry, and well packed, we also have some bone fragments that are
belonging to a third party there are unidentified fingerprints on the backpack and
Lastly, both bodies completely decomposed and were broken apart, after just nine weeks between april and june
hmmm...
Something seems strange here.
I say, this because just last, year a girl, named katherine johanna
Was visiting the same region of panama and was brutally strangled to death by her own shirt while she was hiking in the region
Tuh date only one teen suspect
Has been identified in the case, what if this same person has something to do with the strange disappearances of Kris and Lisanne?
It really is strange to me and something about this case particularly with, the final night image doesn't add up to me
The tragic death of Kris Kremers and Lisanne Froon is truly a mystery and i hope that, some day, some actual answers can
Be found with this case
while there's much speculation, surrounding the possibility of a third party being involved
This very well could be a simple case of going hiking unprepared, getting lost,
And dying due to lack of food or water combined with a possible injury.
While we may never truly know where these girls went, or what transpired on those presumably endless ten days of agony, we can
Always, speculate with the evidence that, we do currently have
We just explored the harrowing, mystery surrounding the disappearance of Kris Kremers and Lisanne Froon, this is a case that's baffled
Me for quite
Some time and a hull of this interested you as much as it did me
If you have any theories or any evidence that i may have missed feel free to send them
my way. I'd love to check it out
Lastly thanks so much for watching. I love you all and good night.